---
layout: project
type: project
image: img/micromouse/micromouse-square.jpg
title: "ECE438: Photovoltaic Energy Source Solar Project"
date: Spring 2024
published: true
labels:
  - Photovoltaic Energy System Design
  - Renewable Energy
  - Environmental Impact
summary: " The Photovoltaic Energy Source Solar Project aimed to design a solar energy system to power a Hawaii household efficiently, while addressing sustainability and energy independence."
---
This project entailed on the design of a photovoltaic (PV) solar energy system to fully power an average sized home of a selected neighborhood in Hawaii. Utilizing any choice of popular-brand panels and Powerwall storage units, this project analyzed the system's potential to generate enough power and offset Hawaii's high energy costs. The study takes environmental and global issues into consideration, such as sustainability, reduced carbon emissions, and habitat preservation. This is executed while evaluating tax incentives, permits, and project costs to provide a detailed framework for the implementation of renewable energy soutions. 

Under our team, we selected Waialae Iki as the neighborhood to calculate the average size of a home in Hawai‘i. The size of the house was determined to be around 5,000 square feet. Using Tesla brand panels and Powerwall storage units, we calculated the system’s ability to generate 14.58 kW of power to offset Hawai‘i’s high energy costs. Contributions were made toward system design and analysis, identifying key parameters such as the capacity factor, project duration, and energy efficiency. The PV system’s output, storage requirements, and additional fees were calculated to meet the energy demands of the household with optimal performance. Environmental impacts and global issues were addressed in relation to the renewable energy transition, contributing to the promotion of sustainability and energy independence for Hawai‘i.

